README.md, before:

# CZFF-lang specification

1. [Overview](#overview)

    * [Purpose and Concepts](#purpose-and-concepts)

    * [System Architecture](#system-architecture)

        * [Schematic Diagram](#schematic-diagram)

        * [System Pipeline](#pipeline)

    * [Implementation Languages](#implementation-languages)

2. [Language Syntax and Semantics](#language-syntax-and-semantics)

    * [Characters](#characters)

    * [Comments](#comments)

    * [Tokens](#tokens)

    * [Literals](#literals)

    * [Constants](#constants)

    * [Types](#types)

        * [Primitive Types](#primitive-types)

        * [Composite Types](#composite-types)

        * [User-defined Data Types](#user-defined-data-types)

    * [Expressions and Operators](#expressions-and-operators)

        * [Function Calls](#function-calls)

        * [Arithmetic Operators](#arithmetic-operators)

        * [Comparison Operators](#comparison-operators)

        * [Logical Operators](#logical-operators)

        * [Assignment](#assignment)

        * [Ternary Conditional Operator](#ternary-conditional-operator)

        * [Conversions](#conversions)

        * [Priority and Order of Operations](#priority-and-order-of-operations)

    * [Blocks, Scopes and Declarations](#blocks-scopes-and-declarations)

        * [Constant Declarations](#constant-declarations)

        * [Variable Declarations](#variable-declarations)

        * [Function Declarations](#function-declarations)

        * [Class Declarations](#class-declarations)

    * [Control Flow](#control-flow)

        * [Conditions](#conditions)

        * [Loops](#loops)

        * [Exceptions](#exceptions)

3. [System Components](#system-components)

    * [Lexer and Parser](#lexer-and-parser)

    * [Bytecode Compiler](#bytecode-compiler)

    * [Virtual Machine (Runtime)](#virtual-machine-runtime)

        * [VM Architecuture](#vm-architecture)

        * [Memory Model and Management](#memory-model-and-management)

        * [Just-In-Time (JIT) Compiler](#jit-compiler)

4. [Standard Library](#standard-library)

5. [Code Examples](#code-examples)

## Overview

### Purpose and Concepts

* Imperative programming language

* Automatic memory management

* Interpreter + JIT-compiler for optimizing hot spots

* Statically typed

* Single-threaded

* Entry point - точка входа - (например, функция int main();)

### System Architecture

#### Schematic Diagram

![Pipeline Schema](docs/assets/pipeline-schema.png)

#### Pipeline

* Lexer

* Parser

* Semantic analysis

* Intermediate Code Generation

* Optimizations

* Virtual machine

* Garbage Collector

* JIT-compiler (and Profiler)

### Implementation Languages

| Component | Language | Justification |
| --------- | -------- | ------- |
| `Lexer/Parser` |  |  |
| `Compiler` | |  |
| `Virtual Machine` | C++ | High performance and low-level access |

## Language Syntax and Semantics

### Characters

Newline, whitespace…, decimal digits, letters

### Comments

* One line

* Multiple lines

### Tokens

* Identifiers (названия переменных и типов)

* Keywords (if, for, while…)

* Operators (+, -, %...)

### Literals

* numeric

* string

### Constants

### Types

#### Primitive Types

* Bool

* Integer

#### Composite Types

* String

* Array

#### User-Defined Data Types

* Classes

* Structures

### Expressions and Operators

#### Function Calls

#### Arithmetic Operators

#### Comparison Operators

#### Logical Operators

#### Assignment

#### Ternary Conditional Operator

### Conversions

* Implicit

* Explicit

### Priority and Order of Operations

### Blocks, Scopes and Declarations

#### Constant Declarations

#### Variable Declarations

#### Function Declarations

#### Class Declarations

### Control Flow

#### Conditions

if, else, elif...

#### Loops

for, while + break, continue, return(?), (?) do-while, (?) foreach

#### Exceptions

## System Components

### Lexer and Parser

### Bytecode Compiler

### Virtual Machine (Runtime)

#### VM Architecture

The Czff programming language virtual machine has stack-based architecture.

The first thing that runs in the virtual machine is the class loader, which loads `.ball` files (containing bytecode) into RAM, performs linking, and initializes static variables.

The Runtime Data Area is divided into five areas, into which objects are placed according to specific rules.

Program execution is handled by the Execution Engine, which consists of an interpreter that translates bytecode into machine code, a Garbage Collector that removes objects unreachable from the program, a Profiler that identifies areas of optimization for the JIT compiler, and the JIT compiler itself.

#### Memory Model and Management

Memory model and management + how to pass data (by value/reference)

#### JIT Compiler

## Standard Library

* input, output

* built-in functions

    * min, max

    * ...

* ...

## Code Examples

* Factorial calculation

        var n = 10;
        print(factorial(n));

* Array Sorting

        array<int> arr
        merge_sort(arr)

* Prime Number Generation

        var n = 10;
        var arr := sieve(n);

* Maybe smth else

Commit message:

refactor: description details are transfered to different files accordingly

README.md, after:

# CZFF-lang specification

1. [Overview](#overview)

    * [Purpose and Concepts](#purpose-and-concepts)

    * [System Architecture](#system-architecture)

        * [Schematic Diagram](#schematic-diagram)

        * [System Pipeline](#pipeline)

    * [Implementation Languages](#implementation-languages)

2. [Language Syntax and Semantics](#language-syntax-and-semantics)

    * [Characters](#characters)

    * [Comments](#comments)

    * [Tokens](#tokens)

    * [Literals](#literals)

    * [Constants](#constants)

    * [Types](#types)

        * [Primitive Types](#primitive-types)

        * [Composite Types](#composite-types)

        * [User-defined Data Types](#user-defined-data-types)

    * [Expressions and Operators](#expressions-and-operators)

        * [Function Calls](#function-calls)

        * [Arithmetic Operators](#arithmetic-operators)

        * [Comparison Operators](#comparison-operators)

        * [Logical Operators](#logical-operators)

        * [Assignment](#assignment)

        * [Ternary Conditional Operator](#ternary-conditional-operator)

        * [Conversions](#conversions)

        * [Priority and Order of Operations](#priority-and-order-of-operations)

    * [Blocks, Scopes and Declarations](#blocks-scopes-and-declarations)

        * [Constant Declarations](#constant-declarations)

        * [Variable Declarations](#variable-declarations)

        * [Function Declarations](#function-declarations)

        * [Class Declarations](#class-declarations)

    * [Control Flow](#control-flow)

        * [Conditions](#conditions)

        * [Loops](#loops)

        * [Exceptions](#exceptions)

3. [System Components](#system-components)

    * [Lexer and Parser](#lexer-and-parser)

    * [Bytecode Compiler](#bytecode-compiler)

    * [Virtual Machine (Runtime)](#virtual-machine-runtime)

        * [VM Architecuture](#vm-architecture)

        * [Memory Model and Management](#memory-model-and-management)

        * [Just-In-Time (JIT) Compiler](#jit-compiler)

4. [Standard Library](#standard-library)

5. [Code Examples](#code-examples)

## Overview

### Purpose and Concepts

* Imperative programming language

* Automatic memory management

* Interpreter + JIT-compiler for optimizing hot spots

* Statically typed

* Single-threaded

* Entry point - точка входа - (например, функция int main();)

### System Architecture

#### Schematic Diagram

![Pipeline Schema](docs/assets/pipeline-schema.png)

#### Pipeline

* Lexer

* Parser

* Semantic analysis

* Intermediate Code Generation

* Optimizations

* Virtual machine

* Garbage Collector

* JIT-compiler (and Profiler)

### Implementation Languages

| Component | Language | Justification |
| --------- | -------- | ------- |
| `Lexer/Parser` |  |  |
| `Compiler` | |  |
| `Virtual Machine` | C++ | High performance and low-level access |

## Language Syntax and Semantics

### Characters

Newline, whitespace…, decimal digits, letters

### Comments

* One line

* Multiple lines

### Tokens

* Identifiers (названия переменных и типов)

* Keywords (if, for, while…)

* Operators (+, -, %...)

### Literals

* numeric

* string

### Constants

### Types

#### Primitive Types

* Bool

* Integer

#### Composite Types

* String

* Array

#### User-Defined Data Types

* Classes

* Structures

### Expressions and Operators

#### Function Calls

#### Arithmetic Operators

#### Comparison Operators

#### Logical Operators

#### Assignment

#### Ternary Conditional Operator

### Conversions

* Implicit

* Explicit

### Priority and Order of Operations

### Blocks, Scopes and Declarations

#### Constant Declarations

#### Variable Declarations

#### Function Declarations

#### Class Declarations

### Control Flow

#### Conditions

if, else, elif...

#### Loops

for, while + break, continue, return(?), (?) do-while, (?) foreach

#### Exceptions

## System Components

### Lexer and Parser

### Bytecode Compiler

### Virtual Machine (Runtime)

#### VM Architecture

Czff programming language virtual machine's architecture is _stack-based_ and is based on the practices of the specifications for JVM. For detailed information, see [VM Architecture section](./docs/virtual-machine/vm-architecture.md).

#### Memory Model and Management

Memory management is accomplished through two main components:

1) [Runtime Data Area](./docs/virtual-machine/runtime-data-area.md) (storing objects according to their type)

2) [Garbage Collector](./docs/virtual-machine/execution-engine/garbage-collector.md) (removing inaccessible objects from memory)

#### JIT Compiler

On JIT compilation see [JIT Compiler section](./docs/virtual-machine/execution-engine/jit-compiler.md).

## Standard Library

* input, output

* built-in functions

    * min, max

    * ...

* ...

## Code Examples

* Factorial calculation

        var n = 10;
        print(factorial(n));

* Array Sorting

        array<int> arr
        merge_sort(arr)

* Prime Number Generation

        var n = 10;
        var arr := sieve(n);

* Maybe smth else
